MODULE -0
1. Define the following terms :
i) Database
ii) DBMS catalog
lii) Entity
iv) Snapshot
v) Degree ofa relationship. (05 Marks)
2. Explain types of end-users with suitable examples. (05 Marks)
3. List and explain advantages of using DBMS approach. (10 Marks
Define the following terms
i) Cardinality
il) Weak entity
11) Program data independence
iv) Total participation
v) Value sets. (05 Marks)
4. Describe three schema architecture. Why do we need mappings between schema levels?
(05 Marks)
MODULE -1
1. Explain the entity integrity and referential integrity constraints. Why is cach considered
important. Give examples. (05 Marks)
2. Discuss equijoin and natural join with suitable examples using relational algebra notation.
(05 Marks)
3. Given the schema :
Passenger (pid, pname, pgender, pcity)
Agency (aid, anme, acity)
Flight (fid, fdate, time, src, dest)
Booking (pid, aid, fid, fdate)
Give relation algebra expression for the following :
1) Get the complete details of all flights to new Delhi
ii) Find only the flight numbers for passenger with paid 123 for flights to Chennai before
06/1 1/2020
ili) Find the passenger names for those who do not have any bookings in any flights
iv) Get the details of flights that are scheduled on both dates 01/12/2020 and 02/12/2020 at
16:00 hours
v) Find the details of all male passengers who are associated with jet agency. (10 Marks)
4. lof2
10
ba]
-
18CS53
Explain the ER to relational mapping algorithm with suitable example for each step.
(10 Marks)
5. Write SQL query for the following database scheme :
Employee(employee_name, street, city)
Works (employee_name, company_name, salary)
Company(company_name, city)
Manages(employee_name, manager_name)
1) Find the names, street address, and cities of residence for all employees who work for
‘First Bank Corporation’ and earn more than $10,000
ii) Find the names of all employees in the database who do not work for ‘First Bank
Corporation’. Assume that all people work for exactly one company
iii) Find the names of all employees in the database who earn more that every employee of
‘Small Bank Corporation’. Assume that all people work for at most one company
iv) Find the name of the company that has the smallest payroll
v) Find the names of all employees in the database who live in the same cities and on the
same streets as do their managers. (10 Marks)
MODULE -2
1. Explain cursors and its properties in embedded SQL with suitable example. (05 Marks)
2. How are triggers defined in SQL? Explain with example. (05 Marks)
3. Illustrate insert, delete, update, alter and drop statements in SQL. (10 Marks)
4. With an example, explain stored procedures In SQL. (05 Marks)
5. Briefly explain types of JDBC drives. (05 Marks)
6. Illustrate aggregate functions in SQL. (10 Marks)
MODULE -3
1. Explain types of update ananalies with examples. (05 Marks)
2. Explain Armstrong inference rules. (05 Marks)
3. What is the need for normalization? Explain | NF, 2NF and 3NF with examples. (10 Marks
What is functional dependency? Write an algorithm to find minimal cover for set of
functional dependencies. Construct minimal cover m for set of functional dependencies
which are : E:{B—>A,D-—-A,AB—-D} (10 Marks)
4. Consider the schema R = ABCD, subjected to FDs F = {A > B, B —> C}, and the non-
binary partition DI = {ACD, AB, BC}. State whether D1 is a lossless decomposition? [give
all steps in detail]. (10 Marks)
MODULE -4
1. Define transaction. Discuss ACID properties. (05 Marks)
2. With a neat diagram explain transition diagram of a transaction. (05 Marks)
3. Why concurrency control and recovery are needed in DBMS? Explain types of problems
that may occur when two simple transactions run concurrently. (10 Marks)
4. When deadlock and starvation problem occur? Explain how these problems can be resolved.
(10 Marks)
5. Briefly discuss the two-phase locking techniques for concurrency control. (10 Marks)
